---
title: "Code Repository"
---

The official wxWidgets source code repository is managed by
[Git](https://git-scm.com/). Git is a distributed version control system that
allows the core developers to collaborate on a single codebase and anybody
else, anywhere in the world, to always view the latest sources using
[GitHub](https://github.com/wxWidgets/) web interface or check them out,
following the instructions below.

### Git Software and Documentation

The instructions here about Git are very brief and cover only the most common
operations. For more information, please see the references below:

* See [BuildGit.txt](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/blob/47c0aed3222360f22cd35e8cad307457e51299c2/BuildGit.txt)
  file in the top-level wxWidgets distribution directory.
* [Git book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2): Pro Git book online.


### Cloning wxWidgets with Git

You can clone wxWidgets from Git with the following command:

    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets.git

To make the initial clone faster, consider also adding `--jobs=5` to clone the
submodules in parallel.

If you forget to use the `--recurse-submodules` during the initial clone, or
new submodules have been added since it, please use

    git submodule update --init

command to initialize the submodules later (`--jobs` option can again be used
here).

The command above checks out the wxWidgets master branch, corresponding to the
latest development version. To check out a different branch, you can use

    git checkout WX_3_0_BRANCH

You can find a full listing of all branches
[here](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/branches).


### Updating Your Files

To make your files reflect what's currently in the repository:

    git pull --ff-only

This will add all of the commits since the last pull (or clone, if doing this
for the first time) to your active branch, without creating a merge commit
accidentally.

Note that you can receive notifications about all Git changes by subscribing
to the [Source Code Updates mailing list](/support/mailing-lists/).


### Tags

Git tags give you the ability to checkout any specific version of wxWidgets
that has been tagged either for a release, or as identification markers for a
significant change. These work exactly the same as checking out branches.

For example, to checkout wxWidgets 2.8.12 from Git, use the following command:

    git checkout WX_2_8_12

You can find a list of all tags available for checkout
[here](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/tags).


### Making Changes

If you want to contribute to wxWidgets by submitting an enhancement or a bug
fix, please start by posting to [wx-dev mailing list](/support/mailing-lists/)
to discuss the proposed changes. Once a rough agreement about what needs to be
done is reached, start working on your contribution by creating a new branch
for your work:

    git checkout -b my-work origin/master

Then do the required changes and stage them for commit by using `git add`
command, e.g. in the simplest case when you want to commit all local changes,
just

    git add --all

Running the following command will now show which changes will be committed:

    git status

You can now commit those changes by running:

    git commit

Please take the time to write a good commit message for all your commits,
following [the standard rules](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).


### Integrating Changes into wxWidgets

If you have, or are ready to create, a GitHub account please create your own
fork of [wxWidgets repository](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets) by
using the "Fork" button at this link (this only needs to be done once, so skip
this step if you had already done it). Then add a remote corresponding to your
fork, e.g.

    git remote add my-github git@github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_NAME/wxWidgets.git

and push your branch to it

    git push my-github my-work

(the "my-github" name for the remote is completely arbitrary and you can use
anything you like instead of it). As you will probably push to this branch
more than once, consider adding `--set-upstream` switch to the git push
command to associate your local my-work branch with the branch with the same
name in your GitHub repository: if you do this, you will be able to use just
`git push`, without any arguments, the next time to push this branch there.
Finally, you can make a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/)
to the main wxWidgets repository. Please make sure to review the diff between
your changes and the current version to check that it really corresponds to
what you intended to change and correct any problems if you see them.

If you don't use GitHub and don't want to create a GitHub account, you can
still [make a patch](/develop/how-to-submit-patches/)
and send it by email instead, but please notice that pull requests are
preferred for any non-trivial changes as they allow the code to pass the
continuous integration checks.

If you submit pull requests often and feel that having write access to the
repository would facilitate your ongoing work on the project, please ask
for it on wx-dev. However please notice that even core contributors, who do
have write access, are still strongly encouraged to use the PR-based workflow
above for their contributions.
