---
title: February 2009 News
date: '2009-02-28T13:00:00.001Z'
author: Vadim Zeitlin
modified_time: '2009-03-02T14:32:24.555Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-35681690.post-3313560909130791447
blogger_orig_url: http://wxwidgets.blogspot.com/2009/02/february-2009-news.html
---

Maybe it's because February is so short or, more likely, because we started a
lot of things in January, but not that many exciting things have happened in wx
land during this month. To continue from the last month summary, we did move
closer to finalizing the new event handling code, although we had to introduce a
new Bind() method (which I'm going to describe in another post soon) as trying
to introduce new features while keeping backwards compatibility with the
existing code using Connect() proved to be too hard. And the wxYield-related
changes were mostly finished too.

Unfortunately not much has been done for the remaining big item for 2.9.0
release: [unification of the debug and release] builds. This is something which
would be really useful for both the library users and developers and actually
doing it will probably be not that difficult -- but deciding what exactly should
be done proves to be [more agonizing] than expected. I still hope to do it in
March but then I said the same thing about February at the end of January, of
course...

There were also some discussions about releases: both [2.8.10] and [2.9.0].
Please help us with testing them if you can!

The only new features of note implemented in this month were, AFAICS, the new
wxTaskBarIcon implementation for wxGTK by Paul which should look much better in
modern desktop environments and support for [hints] (a.k.a. cue banners or
placeholder strings) to wxTextEntry (and hence wxTextCtrl and wxComboBox).

As usual, several bugs were fixed. The most important one was arguably [#626]
which is a problem with wxTreeCtrl selection events in `wxTR_MULTIPLE` mode. As
can be seen from its number, it was a very long-standing ticket and while the
fix hasn't been checked in just yet, it's going to be done very soon -- thanks a
lot to Jonathan Liu who spent a lot of time working on this (and several other
bugs as well).

Finally, some statistics for February: there were 632 commits in the repository,
67 new tickets were created, 84 were modified and 61 were closed. We'll try to
do better in the next month (and preferably not by making Trac crash with
internal server error and thus making it impossible for people to enter new
tickets... I do love Trac UI and workflow but it's still amazing that it's the
only ticketing system which I ever saw crashing -- but then I saw it do this all
the time).

That's all for this month folks and have a nice March!

[unification of the debug and release]: http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.lib.wxwidgets.devel/111094
[more agonizing]: http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.lib.wxwidgets.general/64057
[2.8.10]: http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.lib.wxwidgets.devel/111488
[2.9.0]: http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.lib.wxwidgets.general/64401
[hints]: https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_text_entry.html#db61407dc8103df59c66cb5de3dd22a1
[#626]: https://trac.wxwidgets.org/ticket/626
