---
title: GSoC 2010 Mid Term
date: '2010-07-22T13:00:00.003Z'
author: Vadim Zeitlin
tags:
- gsoc
modified_time: '2010-07-22T13:15:17.601Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-35681690.post-5239079739094910614
blogger_orig_url: http://wxwidgets.blogspot.com/2010/07/gsoc-2010-mid-term.html
---

Even though it was expected because we could see all of them working hard, I'm
still happy to announce that all GSoC students working on wxWidgets this summer
have passed their mid term evaluations with flying colours, congratulations! To
give you some insight in what exactly has happened during the first half of the
program, here are progress reports straight from the students themselves:

#### wxRichTextCtrl image support improvements project

Student: Mingquan Yang

My project generally contains two main parts: an image controlling dialog and
multiple image floating supports.

For controlling dailog, in the past weeks, a new class wxRichTextImageDlg was
added to control the image properties.   And wxRichTextImageAttr is completed to
pass the image property between image object and controlling dialog. Now the
dialog supports image alignment, floating and image scaling change. And in
layout, we only support image scaling now. The richtext sample application is
changed to add the new feature.

The floating layout work started from last week and get a detail discuss about
how to anchor an image to a paragraph and how the alignment/floating affect the
image with my mentor. Now, code design is complete and I have started coding on
this floating algorithm.

#### Implementing support for new Windows Vista/7 UI elements in wxWidgets

Student: Rickard Westerlund

My work started out slow with school ending late and other issues I've had to
deal with. It's going quite well now, I've finished my work on implementing
wxCommandLinkButton and I should be finished with task dialog replacement for
wxMessageDialog as well as the new wxRichMessageDialog pretty soon. I hope I
will also be under way with the task dialog replacement for wxProgressDialog at
the time of the mid-term evaluation.

Most of the problems I've encountered have been related to following the code
structure and style of wxWidgets, since I haven't worked with it before. Since
I've learnt a lot about that I believe the work on the remaining components to
go much smoother.

For the next period I will work on implementing a wxSplitButton class and a
native implementation of wxHyperLinkCtrl using syslinks for Windows. I've
already looked into split buttons and syslinks and come up with some ideas for
the implementation.   Finally, for the taskbar-related functionality I had
planned I'd like to at least implement the progress bar as it should be possible
to implement under other platforms as well.

#### Masked edit control implementation

Student: Julien Weinzorn

In the beginning, my work was to write documentation and the base of the classes
wxMaskedField and wxMaskedEdit. Next I have created unitary test and correct my
code.

After this I got some problems with autoconf and event connection, but now it
works well. Therefore my timeline was ambitious and the project is a bit more
complicated than I thought.

Two weeks ago I have beginning to write a basic sample to test my code and it
was not working according to wxPython. Therefore I have test an other way to
code maskEdit and the new version works find with single field mask.

At present, wxMaskedField and wxMaskedEdit are completed. I think the docs is
for a great part written. Unitary test are write and all test works. The
connection between textCtrl and mask works. The connection between comboBox and
mask works.

Now I want to add mouse support, and next add sample withing multiple field and
default user input (it is an array of possible choice). Next add some advance
features like change fill char, add some formatCode to change the mask behaviour
and if I have the time, attempt to a regex validation options.

#### wxQt port

Student: Javier Torres

wxQt is progressing well. I have already implemented wxDC and friends so we can
paint on windows and bitmaps. Also, I have started   implementing the window
functionality I needed to be able to test the image and drawing samples. Right
now, both the drawing and images sample compile and work fine (although some
functionality such as blitting is still not there).

On the wxWindow front, the event handling architecture is there, and some random
events are handled (mousewheeling, OnPaint and some more) and implementing all
of these is the next objective. After that, the only thing missing to complete
the initial idea for the project is all the details of windows and subclasses
(mostly the scrolled window as it is the most different).

#### Unit tests for the GUI features

Student: Steven Lamerton

GUI unit-testing work is coming along nicely, especially as my exams didn't
finish until just before two weeks ago. Before my exams (and during them too!) I
worked on wxUIActionSimulator. The keyboard related functions now all take a
wxKeyCode rather than platform specific key codes and wxKeyModifiers rather than
a long list of bools. The Unix implementation specifically was nearly completely
re-written and a wxKeycode -> CGKeyCode function was written for OSX. I now feel
wxUIActionSimulator could be enabled by default rather than disabled.

Since exams I have been working entirely on testing. I have written a new
wxTestableFrame class for counting events and updated the existing unit-testing
framework to make use of it. Once this was completed, and the issue I brought up
on the list was solved, I started working on new test cases. In just over a week
I have increased the number of tests from roughly 85 to 160. Many of these are
testing the events generated by controls and ensuring they actually match up to
the documentation.

---

Thanks once again for all of you and good luck for the rest of the program!
