---
title: 3.0.2 Released
date: '2014-10-06T12:24:00.000Z'
author: Vadim Zeitlin
tags:
- release
- announcement
modified_time: '2014-10-06T12:24:18.625Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-35681690.post-8632794377654208730
blogger_orig_url: http://wxwidgets.blogspot.com/2014/10/302-released.html
---

We have just released wxWidgets 3.0.2, please see the [announcement] for the
download links. There is nothing particularly exciting about this maintenance
release, but it does fix quite a few bugs and so upgrading to it is recommended
to all 3.0 users -- there are no drawbacks to it, as the new release remains
both API- and ABI-compatible with 3.0.0.

To give slightly more details, the fixes were mostly in wxMSW, quoting from the
change log:

*   Fix background of `wxRadioBox` buttons and `wxSlider`.
*   Fix appearance of `wxToggleButtons` with non default colours.
*   Fix drawing on `wxDC` when using right-to-left layout.
*   Fix `wxGrid` appearance and behaviour in RTL.
*   Fix creating `wxBitmap` from monochrome `wxIcon` or `wxCursor`.
*   Fix handling of bitmaps with alpha in `wxImageList`.
*   Add paragraph spacing attributes support to `wxTextCtrl`.
*   Show new style directory selector even for non existent paths.
*   Fix order of radial gradient stops.
*   Fix font created using `wxFont(wxFontInfo())` ctor.
*   Fix `wxFileName::GetShortcutTarget()` in console applications.
*   Fix `wxFileName::MakeRelativeTo()` for shortcut files.
*   Fix height of initially empty `wxBitmapComboBox`.
*   Fix setting label of submenu items.
*   Fix using `Esc` as accelerator in the menus.
*   Fix wrong initial status bar height in some cases.

And there are also build fixes for Cygwin 1.7, for MinGW 4.8 (we now work around
the bugs in its headers) as well as improvements for MSVS projects: the ones for
2005 and 2008 now also include x64 configurations, while the ones for the later
versions now reliably build when using parallel build.

In wxGTK, `wxSearchCtrl` was fixed and doesn't truncate the text and icons
inside it any more. There were a few changes in wxOSX as well, including a fix
for the use of `wxPreferencesEditor`.

Finally, in spite of the focus on the bug fixes, there are also a couple of new
features in this release:

*   `wxDateTime::Format()` now support POSIX `%V`, `%G` and `%g` format
    specifiers for week-number formatting.
*   XRC handler for `wxSimplebook` was added.
*   It is also now possible to specify the window variant (normal, small,
    large, ...) in XRC.
*   `wxGenericListCtrl::EndEditLabel()` was implemented, for consistency with
    the native wxMSW version.

As always, please let us know about any problems with this release and we hope
you will find it useful!

[announcement]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/wx-announce/tRxkeGNkkdA
