---
title: 3.1.0 Is Coming
date: '2016-02-01T02:31:00.000Z'
author: Vadim Zeitlin
tags:
- release
- progress
modified_time: '2016-02-01T02:31:14.768Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-35681690.post-3678768773333542772
blogger_orig_url: http://wxwidgets.blogspot.com/2016/02/310-is-coming.html
---

Although we've been talking about it since quite some time, this time we're
_really_ going to make a new release soon. To be even more precise, I firmly
expect to make it this month. Of course, I did wait until January was over to
announce it. On the other hand, I did not wait for the February to be over
neither even though it's the shortest month of the year. On still another hand,
we did wait an extra year for this release, presumably just to have one extra
day to make it in February of this year, as opposed to the last one... In any
case, barring something really catastrophic happening, we should have a
pre-release on February 15 and the release some time after that.

Of course, deciding to make the release is not quite enough, there are other
things to do too, such as applying at least the most urgent and long standing
patches and fixing selected bugs. So this week-end I spent some time doing this
and, as the result, instead of 49 3.1.0-critical bugs we now have only [20 of
them] which is not as good as I hoped, but better than I expected. Of course,
some of these bugs were just postponed, while others turned out to be not bugs
at all after all or to have been already fixed. Still, quite a few real bugs
and, notably, a few regressions which really couldn't remain before the release,
were fixed as well, so there is that. I hope to deal with the remaining bugs
during the next week and maybe even apply some non 3.1.0-targetted patches too,
but in the worst case we could just postpone all the remaining 3.1.0 tickets as
there is nothing absolutely critical there (and only a couple I'd characterise
as being moderately critical).

So things look cautiously good for 3.1.0 and if we make it according to the
plan, thus proving that our new release scripts, updated after the switch to
git, work, hopefully 3.0.3 will follow soon afterwards.

[20 of them]: https://trac.wxwidgets.org/query?status=accepted&status=confirmed&status=new&status=reopened&milestone=3.1.0&group=component&col=id&col=summary&col=milestone&col=status&col=type&col=priority&col=component&col=patch&order=priority
