---
title: Safer S...
date: '2017-02-19T17:30:00.001Z'
author: Vadim Zeitlin
tags:
- api
- change
modified_time: '2017-02-19T17:30:57.316Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-35681690.post-2921129021661579943
blogger_orig_url: http://wxwidgets.blogspot.com/2017/02/safer-s.html
---

I want, of course, to talk about "Safer Strings" today.

---

**TL;DR:** Add `/DwxNO_UNSAFE_WXSTRING_CONV=1` to your compiler options today.

---

wxWidgets has had implicit conversion of `wxString` to `const char*` since the
dawn of time (or about 1992, at any rate). This was always dangerous, as it
allowed someone to accidentally write:

```cpp
void show_and_free(const char* p) { ...; free(p); }
wxString s("...");
show_and_free(s);
```

with catastrophic consequences, but such situations were relatively rare and it
was thought that the convenience of having this implicit conversion overweighted
the dangers. This is also why when we added Unicode support later, we also added
implicit conversion to `const wchar_t*` and, when we added "STL" build mode, in
which interoperability with the standard library is increased further even at
the price of backwards compatibility, we added implicit conversions to
`std::string` and `std::wstring` as well.

Unfortunately, with the merge of ANSI and Unicode build modes in wxWidgets 3,
another, much more dangerous, problem has appeared because in the new combined
mode we can now have a string containing Unicode characters not representable in
the current locale encoding. And converting such strings to either `char*` or
`std::string` inevitably results in a loss of data in this case, e.g.

```cpp
double convert_temperature_to_celsius(const char* p) {
    const char* end;
    double t = strtod(p, &end);
    return 5. * (t - 32) / 9.;
}

wxString s = wxGetTextFromUser("Enter temperature");
convert_temperature_to_celsius(s);
```

could, confusingly, result in always returning `-17.77777`, corresponding to
0°F, if the user decided to terminate the temperature entry with "°F" to
explicitly indicate the scale used and the current encoding couldn't represent
the [degree symbol] (which is the case of e.g. CP1250 under Microsoft Windows).
In this case, conversion of `wxString` to `char*` would fail and p would be just
empty.

Of course, this wouldn't happen if the code just used `wxString::ToDouble()`
directly, or used `wxChar` and `wxStrtod()`, or used UTF-8, capable of
representing any Unicode character, as encoding (which is practically always the
case under Unix systems nowadays). So there are a lot of ways to write this code
correctly, but, unfortunately, it was still too simple to write it wrongly
accidentally lose the data entered by the user in this case. Clearly, implicit
conversions potentially losing data are a bad idea, but we couldn't just turn
them off in wxWidgets 3, as it would have broken almost all the existing
programs which, empirically, all used these conversions in many places.

For the same reason, we still won't be able to turn this conversion off by
default, even in wxWidgets 3.2. However now we at least [provide a way] to
opt-in into safer behaviour. The arguably less interesting part of the changes
is that you can now change the value of the compile-time
`wxUSE_UNSAFE_WXSTRING_CONV` option when building the library. It is set to 1 by
default, for compatibility, but if you build wxWidgets for the use in your own
project, you are strongly advised to set it to 0 to permanently disable the
unsafe, in the sense described above, implicit conversions.

Many people, however, don't build their own library, but use the one provided by
their package manager under Unix/macOS or download our MSW binaries. These
official binaries will continue to provide the unsafe conversions for
compatibility, but you can define `wxNO_UNSAFE_WXSTRING_CONV` when building your
own project to disable their use in your code _without rebuilding_ the library.
This symbol can be just `#define`'d before including any wxWidgets headers, but
it is better to define it globally, in the compiler options in your make- or
project file: just add `/DwxNO_UNSAFE_WXSTRING_CONV=1` to it. And the main point
of this long post is to convince you that you **NEED TO DO** just that: please
define `wxNO_UNSAFE_WXSTRING_CONV` for your code and fix the resulting
compilation errors to ensure that you don't lose any data entered by the user.

Fixing the compilation errors will, generally speaking, involve doing one of two
things:

 * Either stop using `char*` (or `std::string` in the STL build) entirely and
   use `wxString` directly.
 * Or convert it to `wchar_t*` (or `std::wstring`) or convert `wxString` to
   UTF-8 encoding which will never lose data, using methods such as
   `utf8_str()`, which is a convenient synonym for `mb_str(wxConvUTF8)`, or
   `ToStdString(wxConvUTF8)`.

Of course, if you really need to use the current locale encoding, e.g. because
you call a C standard library function using it, you will still need to perform
the conversion to it, using just plain `mb_str()` and there will still be a
possibility of the conversion to it failing, but at least now it won't happen
implicitly.

Thanks for reading all this and, if you jumped to the end, hoping to quickly
find the conclusion instead of reading this wall of text, please see the
conclusion in the very beginning!

[degree symbol]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Degree_symbol
[provide a way]: https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/commit/e125c3b6573972ccfc06d228a7d5abd5306f73be
