---
title: "Post-3.1.1 Progress"
date: 2018-06-27
tags:
- change
comments: true
---

First of all, welcome to the new home of wxBlog. Thanks to great work by Bryan
Petty, it is now hosted on [https://www.wxwidgets.org/blog/](https://www.wxwidgets.org/blog/)
and, especially importantly, is now much simpler to update, which will
hopefully result in more frequent posts.

Today I'd just like to write a few words about the changes in wxWidgets since
our last 3.1.1 release back in February. Since then, there were more than 300
(non-merge) commits from 30 different contributors and while there hasn't been
anything particularly earth-shattering, a few things still merit to be
highlighted:

- wxWidgets can now be built with the latest g++ 8 under all platforms
  without warnings. This is not as trivial as it sounds, as g++ 8 introduced a
  few new warnings and enabled by default a couple of other, previously
  existing ones, which triggered a lot of warnings in wxWidgets headers.
  Fixing them involved significants modernizing some very old wxWidgets code
  in `wx/dynarray.h`, which was good on its own and resulted in some
  collateral bug fixes and enhancements, and now you can also use the
  latest and greatest g++ version for compiling your applications using
  wxWidgets without getting thousands of lines of compiler diagnostics.

- In addition to gzip compression, wxWidgets now supports LZMA compression,
  which can result in much higher compression ratio. This depends on liblzma
  for the actual [de]compression code, but it can be used comfortably from
  wxWidgets via [wxLZMAInputStream](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_l_z_m_a_input_stream.html)
  and [wxLZMAOutputStream](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_l_z_m_a_output_stream.html)
  classes. See [the manual](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/page_build_liblzma.html)
  for more information about integrating liblzma into your build.

- There has been a number of changes to wxHTML classes in order to make it
  simpler to produce multi-page reports from HTML. I worked on this as I'm
  using wxHTML to generate PDF documents using Ulrich Telle's excellent
  [wxPdfDocument](https://utelle.github.io/wxpdfdoc/) library and it's now
  much simpler to paginate these documents, i.e. insert page breaks at the
  correct locations, than before. These changes haven't been fully
  backwards-compatible, so if you previously used [wxHtmlDCRenderer::Render()](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_html_d_c_renderer.html#a5fe383f22d986458858f5ebef359b9bb)
  or overrode [wxHtmlCell::AdjustPagebreak()](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_html_cell.html#ad341b0bdbe676e2afc3ece6665edf1f5)
  in your code, you may need to update it in a relatively simple way as
  [explained in the change log](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/blob/a824ee092db5dd28c907d36867b5281b151daca9/docs/changes.txt#L75,L79).

- Stefan Csomor, Daniel Kulp and others have added supported for the upcoming
  next macOS version: 10.14, a.k.a. Mojave, and, notably, its new dark mode.
  Some problems might still remain, so please test your Mac applications with
  Mojave and let us know if you notice anything wrong.

- No new features have been added to wxMSW port, but a few bug fixes, some of
  which are worth describing in more details:

  - First, Cătălin Răceanu fixed a long standing bug with window positions
  beyond approximatively `SHORT_MAX` (i.e. 32000) due to truncation of
  coordinates to 16 bits inside underlying OS code itself, which meant that
  we long thought that nothing could be done about it. Cătălin worked around
  it by scrolling the window to bring the window position inside 16 bit
  range and then scrolling it back, which seems to work very nicely.

  - Another bug which existed for a very long time, related to repositioning
  children of a scrolled window, was also fixed. This one could result in
  children of a `wxStaticBox` being offset with respect to it when the box was
  created as a child of `wxScrolledWindow` in some circumstances, so if you've
  ever run into this mysterious problem, you should be glad to hear that it
  was really fixed in the latest master.

  - Restoring the top-level window geometry now works correctly if the window
  was maximized when it was closed: it will still be restored maximized, as it
  already was before, but now it will be maximized on the correct (same)
  monitor, if there is more than one, and it will also shrink back to its
  previous size if it's unmaximized by user.

- In wxGTK there also were "just" bug fixes, including implementing
  [wxTextCtrl::HitTest()](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_text_ctrl.html#ad48c6f67afe17085c67231379bba2d7e)
  for single line controls for which it wasn't implemented at all before. This
  incidentally means that [wxTimePickerCtrl](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_time_picker_ctrl.html)
  can now be updated using the mouse, which didn't work at all before.

- Finally, even wxQt port got some updates recently with bug fixes from Naser
  Buhamad and build improvements from Cătălin.


 That's all for now and we'll try to post more frequent (and smaller and hence
simpler to digest) updates here in the future.
