---
title: "wxWidgets 3.1.1 Released"
date: 2018-02-19
comments: true
---

After a long period of development, wxWidgets 3.1.1 has been released today
and is [available](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/releases/tag/v3.1.1)
from GitHub. As usual, along with sources and documentation, we provide
binaries for the selected Windows compilers (Microsoft Visual C++ and
[MinGW-TDM](http://tdm-gcc.tdragon.net/)).

Please notice that while 3.1.1 is officially a "development" version because
it is not fully compatible with the "stable" 3.0.x, the list of backwards
incompatible changes is very short, so you shouldn't have any problems
updating to this version from 3.0.x in practice, and you're encouraged to try
this version out and use it in production in spite of its odd version number.

Compared to 3.0, in addition to the changes in the [previous
release](news/2016/02/wxwidgets-3.1.0-released/), this version brings:

- Support for gesture events (GSoC 2017 project).
- Getting JavaScript code return value from wxWebView (also GSoC 2017 project).
- New wxSecretStore class for securely storing user passwords.
- New, available in parallel with the existing one, CMake build system.
- Support for context-sensitive translations.
- Possibility to disable unsafe wxString conversions on the opt-in basis
  (see [this post](http://wxwidgets.blogspot.com/2017/02/safer-s.html) for
  more details).
- Support for using any window (e.g. wxCheckBox) as wxStaticBox label.
- Many improvements to accessibility support under MSW.
- Support for fractional pen widths in wxGraphicsContext.
- Many improvements to the (still experimental) wxQt port.

Additionally, the latest versions of compilers (e.g. MSVS 2017) and
operating systems (macOS 10.12) are now supported and all the third
party libraries have been updated to their latest versions.

Of course, this brief list doesn't cover all the changes done in more than
2800 commits since 3.1.0, please see the full
[change log](https://github.com/wxWidgets/wxWidgets/blob/v3.1.1/docs/changes.txt#L67)
for a more detailed list.

Thanks to everybody who has contributed to this release and we hope that you
will enjoy working with it!

