---
title: "New wxWidgets Book"
date: 2018-11-15
tags:
- book
- polish
comments: true
---

A new book, "Cross-platform programming with C++ and wxWidgets" by Bartek W.
Warzocha has just been published. This book is currently available in Polish
at Polish Scientific Publishers PWN [online book-store][1] but translations
into other languages may become available in the future.

[1]: https://ksiegarnia.pwn.pl/Programowanie-wieloplatformowe-z-C-i-wxWidgets-3,750527898,p.html

The book has over 1100 pages, 27 chapters and 34 working sample applications.
It is a comprehensive programming guide to wxWidgets 3, full of reliable
information and practical solutions - from the basic or elementary to advanced
(or even on the verge of what might be considered 'impossibleâ€™). It's intended
for C++ programmers who want to create modern and powerful applications for
operating systems from Microsoft and different Linux distributions.

The book consists of four main parts. The first one is an introduction to
wxWidgets in which you can find detailed information about downloading,
installation and configuration of the wxWidgets as well as learn how to create
the first wxWidgets application. The second part is dedicated to the
development of two example programs - a 'Hangman' game, and a simple - but
almost fully-functional - IDE for C++ programming (with advanced styled text
control, XML based project file support and a simple printing system). The
third part of book shows how to work with standard dialogs, create your own
dialogs and how to work with data validators, including creating custom
advanced validators based on regular expressions. The final part covers more
advanced wxWidgets techniques and topics - from specific wxWidgets data types
and detailed aspects of working with file system, to multithreading, network
programming, generic controls creation and modern OpenGL.

As mentioned earlier, an inseparable part of the book are interesting and
sometimes quite advanced working sample applications (of course licensed under
the wxWidgets licence). They have been prepared for Microsoft Visual Studio
2015 and the Code::Blocks IDE and they are available in the source and binary
versions, so you can work with the book more efficiently or just create your
own programs based on them.
